5\. R API Training - Model Factory \[Solution\]
================
Thodoris Petropoulos and Chester Ismay<br>Contributors: Rajiv Shah

This is the 5th exercise to complete in order to finish your `R API
Training for DataRobot` course\! This exercise teaches you how to
leverage DataRobot in order to create a model factory. That could help
you increase model accuracy and shows you the true capabilities of an
AutoML platform.

Here are the actual sections of the notebook alongside time to complete:

1.  Connect to DataRobot. \[3min\]<br>
2.  Create a Pandas Dataframe with the `readmissions` dataset. \[3min\]
3.  Create a DataRobot Project with the `readmissions` dataset
    explicitly using `quick` autopilot. \[5min\]
4.  Split the dataset and run multiple DataRobot Projects based on the
    `admission_type_id` column explicitly using `quick` autopilot.
    \[25min\]
5.  Check the validation and cross validation scores of the best models
    for each one of the projects. What do you see? \[15min\]

Each section will have specific instructions so do not worry if things
are still blurry\!

As always, consult:

  - [API Documentation via CRAN
    Vignettes](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=datarobot)
  - [Samples](https://github.com/datarobot-community/examples-for-data-scientists)
  - [Tutorials](https://github.com/datarobot-community/tutorials-for-data-scientists)

The last two links should provide you with the snippets you need to
complete most of these exercises.

<b>Data</b>

The dataset we will be using throughout these exercises is the
well-known `readmissions dataset`. You can access it or directly
download it through DataRobot’s public S3 bucket
[here](https://s3.amazonaws.com/datarobot_public_datasets/10k_diabetes.csv).

### Import Packages

Import packages here as you start finding out what packages are needed.
The DataRobot package is already included for your convenience.

``` r
# Proposed packages needed
library(dplyr)
```

    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'dplyr'

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:stats':
    ## 
    ##     filter, lag

    ## The following objects are masked from 'package:base':
    ## 
    ##     intersect, setdiff, setequal, union

``` r
library(purrr)
library(readr)
```

### 1\. Connect to DataRobot. \[3min\]<br>

``` r
# Possible solution
datarobot::ConnectToDataRobot(configPath = "../config.yaml")
```

    ## Authentication token saved

``` r
# After connecting, load the datarobot package
library(datarobot)
```


### 2\. Create a data frame/tibble with the `readmissions` dataset. \[3min\]

``` r
# Proposed Solution

df <- read_csv("https://s3.amazonaws.com/datarobot_public_datasets/10k_diabetes.csv")
```

    ## Parsed with column specification:
    ## cols(
    ##   .default = col_character(),
    ##   time_in_hospital = col_double(),
    ##   num_lab_procedures = col_double(),
    ##   num_procedures = col_double(),
    ##   num_medications = col_double(),
    ##   number_outpatient = col_double(),
    ##   number_emergency = col_double(),
    ##   number_inpatient = col_double(),
    ##   number_diagnoses = col_double(),
    ##   readmitted = col_logical()
    ## )

    ## See spec(...) for full column specifications.

``` r
head(df)
```

    ## # A tibble: 6 x 51
    ##   race  gender age   weight admission_type_… discharge_dispo… admission_sourc…
    ##   <chr> <chr>  <chr> <chr>  <chr>            <chr>            <chr>           
    ## 1 Cauc… Female [50-… ?      Elective         Discharged to h… Physician Refer…
    ## 2 Cauc… Female [20-… [50-7… Urgent           Discharged to h… Physician Refer…
    ## 3 Cauc… Male   [80-… ?      Not Available    Discharged/tran… <NA>            
    ## 4 Afri… Female [50-… ?      Emergency        Discharged to h… Transfer from a…
    ## 5 Afri… Female [50-… ?      Emergency        Discharged to h… Emergency Room  
    ## 6 Cauc… Male   [70-… ?      Elective         Discharged to h… Physician Refer…
    ## # … with 44 more variables: time_in_hospital <dbl>, payer_code <chr>,
    ## #   medical_specialty <chr>, num_lab_procedures <dbl>, num_procedures <dbl>,
    ## #   num_medications <dbl>, number_outpatient <dbl>, number_emergency <dbl>,
    ## #   number_inpatient <dbl>, diag_1 <chr>, diag_2 <chr>, diag_3 <chr>,
    ## #   number_diagnoses <dbl>, max_glu_serum <chr>, A1Cresult <chr>,
    ## #   metformin <chr>, repaglinide <chr>, nateglinide <chr>,
    ## #   chlorpropamide <chr>, glimepiride <chr>, acetohexamide <chr>,
    ## #   glipizide <chr>, glyburide <chr>, tolbutamide <chr>, pioglitazone <chr>,
    ## #   rosiglitazone <chr>, acarbose <chr>, miglitol <chr>, troglitazone <chr>,
    ## #   tolazamide <chr>, examide <chr>, citoglipton <chr>, insulin <chr>,
    ## #   glyburide.metformin <chr>, glipizide.metformin <chr>,
    ## #   glimepiride.pioglitazone <chr>, metformin.rosiglitazone <chr>,
    ## #   metformin.pioglitazone <chr>, change <chr>, diabetesMed <chr>,
    ## #   readmitted <lgl>, diag_1_desc <chr>, diag_2_desc <chr>, diag_3_desc <chr>

### 3\. Create a DataRobot Project with the `readmissions` dataset explicitly using `quick` autopilot. \[5min\]

**Instructions**: 1. Use the `StartProject()` function. 2. Set
`readmitted` as the target. 3. Start the project using explicitly the
`quick` autopilot in the `mode` variable. 4. Update the project to have
a `worker_count` variable of -1. 5. Wait for (Quick) Autopilot to
complete.

**HINT**: You should have already done something similar during the 1st
exercise of this course.

``` r
#Possible solution
project <- StartProject(
  dataSource = df, 
  projectName = "05_Model_Factory_01",
  target = "readmitted",
  mode = "quick"
)
```

    ## Project 05_Model_Factory_01 creation requested, awaiting creation

    ## Project 5f36f3d6fa5ce91279a8bd34 (05_Model_Factory_01) created

    ## Autopilot started

``` r
UpdateProject(project, workerCount = -1)
```

    ## Project 5f36f3d6fa5ce91279a8bd34 updated

### 4\. Split the dataset and run multiple DataRobot Projects based on the `admission_type_id` column explicitly using `quick` autopilot. \[25min\]

**Hint**: Some `admission_type_id` values have less than 100 rows. That
is the minimum requirement to start a DataRobot project. You should
create an exception and just skip those admission types.

**Hint 2**: This will take a long time to execute. You can either
execute for only a small part of the different `admission_type_id`
values or just move on to the next exercise while this is executing.

``` r
#Proposed Solution

less_than_100 <- df %>% 
  count(admission_type_id) %>% 
  filter(n <= 100) %>% 
  pull(admission_type_id)

modified_df <- df %>% 
  filter(!admission_type_id %in% less_than_100)

project_list <- modified_df %>%
  group_by(admission_type_id) %>%
  group_map(~ StartProject(
    dataSource = .x,
    projectName = paste0("Readmission_", .y$admission_type_id),
    target = "readmitted",
    mode = "quick"
  ))
```

    ## Project Readmission_Elective creation requested, awaiting creation

    ## Project 5f36f42fc541da1289236fab (Readmission_Elective) created

    ## Autopilot started

    ## Project Readmission_Emergency creation requested, awaiting creation

    ## Project 5f36f488fa5ce912b5a8bbd6 (Readmission_Emergency) created

    ## Autopilot started

    ## Project Readmission_Not Available creation requested, awaiting creation

    ## Project 5f36f4dffa5ce912b5a8bbe1 (Readmission_Not Available) created

    ## Autopilot started

    ## Project Readmission_Urgent creation requested, awaiting creation

    ## Project 5f36f530c541da127d236e82 (Readmission_Urgent) created

    ## Autopilot started

    ## Project Readmission_NA creation requested, awaiting creation

    ## Project 5f36f58ec541da127d236e88 (Readmission_NA) created

    ## Autopilot started

``` r
walk(project_list, UpdateProject, workerCount = -1)
```

    ## Project 5f36f42fc541da1289236fab updated

    ## Project 5f36f488fa5ce912b5a8bbd6 updated

    ## Project 5f36f4dffa5ce912b5a8bbe1 updated

    ## Project 5f36f530c541da127d236e82 updated

    ## Project 5f36f58ec541da127d236e88 updated

``` r
walk(project_list, WaitForAutopilot, verbosity = 0)
```

### 5\. Check the validation scores of the best models for each one of the projects. What do you see? \[15min\]

  - Based on `AUC` score

**Hint**: The `ListProjects()` function takes a `filter` parameter that
you can use to search for different phrases in the names of your
projects. It returns a `projectSummaryList` that can be further
examined.

``` r
#Proposed Solution

these_projects <- ListProjects(filter = list("projectName" = "Readmission_"))

#Get best model from original project which has been trained on all of the data.
ListModels(project)[[1]]$metrics$AUC$validation
```

    ## [1] 0.70857

``` r
#Get best model from each one of the projects trained on a subset of data based 
#on `admission_type_id`.
for (proj_id in these_projects$projectId) {
  top_model <- ListModels(project = proj_id)[[1]]
  print(paste0(top_model$projectName, ": ", top_model$metrics$AUC$validation))
}
```

    ## [1] "Readmission_NA: 0.68542"
    ## [1] "Readmission_Urgent: 0.77702"
    ## [1] "Readmission_Not Available: 0.61946"
    ## [1] "Readmission_Emergency: 0.70894"
    ## [1] "Readmission_Elective: 0.67956"

